#####Maker or Assassin: The Charred Aura of the Re-made - Contribution to Making Humanities Matter - David N. Wright
- 
[Old World Trade Center Site (WTC) by Sacchetta, published Feb 22, 2015](http://www.thingiverse.com/thing:693972)

This is but one case study... there are numerous other ways to reproduce the scale model... and the point still holds.


		- Perhaps this is more like the “thesis paragraph” that I’d expect to find in a typical 2500 word essay? If so, don’t set it off below a subheading. Again, filament is a suggestive metaphor that could be used more consistently throughout the paper, especially if given a consistent theoretical grounding.

The title harkens back to Walter Benjamin's aura--wherein the work of art loses its resonance amidst remediation and mecahnical reproduction. Benjamin's thoughts about reproducability are particularly resanant as we continue along the path of fabrication technologies that reproduce just about anything at this point. Benjamin suggests that the work of art loses it aura--an aura usually created by its scarcity--as images or copies of it are remediated in film, or other media. 

Benjamin reminds us that technological reproduction is nothing new and we should not go nuts about its revelations. However, I'm interested in how 3D printing foregrounds the actual "making of" the object and the "success" of that making over a reproduction of the original and its corresponding signification. While 3D printing certainly continues the contextual slippage that Benjamin notes, it also does something different. 3D printing both strips the original object of its historical context and at the same time wraps it in a new paradigm that is "being made." That is, the successful object is not necessarily one which is an exact replica, but one that is a good enough copy. There is no desire to capture the originality of the object, but rather simply capture it successfully as another object, disassociated from anything... NOT SURE ABOUT THIS>... the object can be exchanged independant of its original context and distributed only as a successfully made object.  

I need to use the aura to frame 3D printing as a mode of fabrication that plays with or problematizes the associations that a trinket might possess. It destabilizes the references an object might have for an individual... where trinkets are usually marked by the stories that accompany them--a reproduction of a desired object, an aunt's visit, a souvenir--the objects printed off from Thingiverse are disconnected from these narratives of memory. There connection to the actual object tangential to the success of actually making the object. The narrative surrounding the trinket is not a story or personal narrative. Rather, it represents a successful fabrication.

The slippage in the term fabrication is interesting to me here because the stories can then be invented. Or they might not exist at all. The problem this creates is one where the object is completely disconnected from its associated narratives of place, individual, or even culture (that last one is a tough one). The object represents a different history--one that runs parallel to--the

Do a search on "tricnket" and "911" and then move on... maybe one more on trinket.   

The reference to Benajmin's aura Not meant to invoke a conversation about Benjamin and the resonance of is theories or a conversation about reproducabililty and its effect on art--ground well covered. Instead, I want to focus the docussion on the universe of Thingverse and the free exchange of objects and one particular example of the World Trade Center. In so doing, I hope to argue that the aura of even the tricnket, not just the work of art is losing some resonance and may be acting as a trigger for further issues such as... (copy from what you have)

Taking this filament linking the completed object to the politics of its revival into account then, it seems reasonable to suggest that working with 3D printers to revive erased spaces for cultural critique is fabricating more than merely objects for scrutiny. What 3D printing does is fabricate new cultural cross-references embedded in the tactility of the object it revives, reproduces, or oddly, erases even further—making stone into plastic.



----

	- I’m not sure what “erased” means here, and throughout the piece. Does it mean gone? Purposely destroyed and/or destroyed by time and erosion? Erased in a cultural/historical sense? Erased in scholarly rhetoric? Are these “spaces” physical spaces or representational spaces (eg. “filmic space”) and how do these spaces relate to “objects” also evoked in the paragraph. In this paragraph spaces and objects seem synonymous, but in most usage spaces are containers for objects.
	- What is the “corpse”? Is it the erased thing? The revived erased thing? Odd to use it in the first sentence and not explain further.
	- I find the last sentence confusing: “emotional effects” were not evoked earlier in the discussion, nor was anything “inert.” Erased and inert seem to be synonyms here, but it’s hard to see how they would be.
	- The current introduction juxtaposes large ethical question with a fairly mundane quote from colleagues in the narrow field of 3D printing in the humanities, then suggests that “the exchange, examination and manipulation of objects is an important mode of critical cultural inquiry”—when surely the group of authors assembled to write this volume are well aware that such importance is far from established beyond a very small, if hopefully prescient and cutting-edge, circle of practitioners. We still need to argue for it! That statement doesn’t stand on its own without further elaboration.
	- Why “corpse”?
	- What’s the relation between object and space you’re proposing here?
	- How do playfulness and sharing pertain? It’s not obvious that they might; so I’d like to understand the turn to these two modes of engagement.
	- The opening paragraph presents an interesting and, I think, important thread of thought to be taken up; however, the second paragraph of the introduction left me unprepared for the essay that follows. Perhaps you could introduce a clearer methodology here? Or expand on what you mean by 3D printing as “encouraging unforeseen fractures in (and connections to) the exchange and significance of cultural artifacts”? I look forward to reading the final draft of this piece. 

When we talk about fabrication in the humanities, we often avoid confronting the following general question: if we are attempting to revive erased cultural spaces by re-fabricating them, what responsibility do we have to the corpse’s social, political, economic, and cultural aura? The question emerges forcefully when we account for motivations such as those suggested by Devon Elliott, Robert MacDougall, and William J. Turkel: "We fabricate objects related to our own historical interests, and then we play with them, modify them, share them with other people, and use them to ground conversations about the past and our relationship to it."[^1] While the exchange, examination, and manipulation of objects--historical or not--is an important mode of critical cultural inquiry, there are important distinctions to be raised when these objects belong to an unaccounted for original cultural context or are situated in contexts where playfulness and sharing might not be a welcome mode of cultural inquiry. Put another way, how should we consider, integrate, or confront emotional effects produced by the revival of the previously erased or inert?

	- This doesn’t really work as a paragraph: a hugely broad statement impossible to accomplish in 2500 words (it needs at least a book!) followed by commentary on the much more focused “current rush to fabricate” without any context or background provided. If this is the extent of the intro, it doesn’t set up the essay well.
	- “Rush to fabricate”: can you parse this?
 
Focusing on 3D printing and its inter-related communities of production, I want to look at how the production of material objects by 3D printing mediates the transaction of cultural artifacts and offers insights into cultural critique. Suffice to say, there is a considerable space for understanding the current rush to fabricate as encouraging unforeseen fractures in (and connections to) the exchange and signification of cultural artifacts.

###The Filament

	- I’m not convinced that there is common agreement on the first quote, but also don’t see how the second quote somehow counters what the first one says. Grammar of last sentence is sufficiently tangled that it doesn’t read as a sentence. Idea of last sentence seems central to what the paper is actually about.
	- This should be specified from the start.

Where there is no doubt common agreement that "Representations always undermine the things represented, and any attempt to make things more concrete invariably leads to unexpected difficulties"[^2] we must also account for how fabricated representations, to borrow a phrase from John Durham Peters, "mark human meaning and intention."[^3] In cases of humanities fabrication, it's imperative, as best we can, to account in some way for both meaning and intention. As such, looking at how the re-fabrication of lost cultural objects using 3D printing technologies allows us to discover things about the original object and trace our own motivations--and errors--for re-fabricating the object in the first place. 

	- “Artifactual objects” is an unfortunate usage here. I assume it means something introduced in process, possibly in error, but “artifact” has a much more common and straighforward meaning in relation to physical objects: a material product of human culture. Thus, for most readers in most context, “artifactual object” simply equals “artifact” equals primary cultural evidence.
	- How does one fabricate a space? I realize that one might fabricate objects and features of a place that might produce a sense of space. Is this what you are suggesting?
	- So are you advocating for a politics of (re)fabrication?
	- Is it fabrication or re-fabrication?

When we fabricate objects using 3D printing technologies as they currently stand, the reproduction of erased spaces—loosely defined as demolished buildings, destroyed geographic features, lost/stolen objects, artifactual objects—is infiltrated upon by the plasticity of their fabrication. By re-producing erased objects using materials sometimes not even present in the original contexts, our re-fabrication creates a distorted sense of materiality. Even when the materials are the same—the reproduction in the same material as the erased original—the reaction to the fabricated materiality suggests a fracture or obtuse connection to the original, erased, object; we often do not account for the fabrication of materiality. The filament that joins the 3D printed object to its community—both as cultural owners and as fabricators—is broken by consistent failures, errors or flaws in processing, and the rigidity of fabrication material choices.

		- I disagree.Reducing an object to a text misses the particularities of objects and forgets that texts have object-like properties (as the other reader indicates).
		- It seems like my earlier comment may have been lost: I wanted to say that objects aren’t texts, they’re objects. You can perhaps “read” them like texts, following Derrida or the like. But you can’t store or transmit one in electronic format. Also, objects are perhaps more “traditional” than texts given that they were around for millennia before the invention of writing. Mostly, I’m not sure how the first statements in the paragraph lead up to the idea of successful fabrication.

The 3D printed object is a text in that it can be read, catalogued, stored and transmitted in a variety of formats from physical to electronic; it can be read in different contexts, manipulated, moved in space and catalogued according to rubrics. Like the traditional mediated text, the object captures and communicates ideas across space and time. However, one of the current fictions of a 3D printed object is that its materiality signifies the success of the end product. That is to say that rather than reveal cultural meaning, the object's successful fabrication (or re-fabrication) often produces a sufficient "wow moment" leading the conversation toward issues of production rather than the mysteries of the object; successful fabrication is the end game. 

		- Real vs. unreal doesn’t work here: a dyed plastic thing made w/ a 3D printer is just as “real” as its wood or stone counterpart carved by hand. There are other distinctions between them, but not their realness. Likewise, with the example of the book, literary scholars too often do just the opposite of what you suggest and talk about books without taking the physical book into account at all. There is a whole “history of the book” and “material culture of the book” trend within literary studies to counter this. Plus, I bet a lot of authors engaged quite directly and excitedly with the physical instantiations of their books.
		- I’m not sure where “disenfranchised” in the last sentence comes in.

The fabricated object carries with it a different kind of cultural synthesis. It is at once “real”—tangible, spatial, manipulatable—and “unreal”—fabricated, plastic, dyed. The object tends to signify the success of the fabrication, rather than the representation or symbolic effect of its re-making or its reintroduction into cultural exchange. It’s as if the author were to suddenly declare, holding up something that looks like a historical novel: “Look, I made this book!” without ever addressing the content, its possible significance or its role as a potential cultural artifact. As I'll discuss in a moment, rendering erased spaces in plastic sometimes infects them with a fabrication infrastructure sometimes disconnected from any significations its cultural capital might offer. Often amazed by the process of fabrication, we tend to avoid asking where the fabrication materials are coming from and how they might signify precisely the disenfranchised group that was once in possession of the original object.

		- Perhaps this is more like the “thesis paragraph” that I’d expect to find in a typical 2500 word essay? If so, don’t set it off below a subheading. Again, filament is a suggestive metaphor that could be used more consistently throughout the paper, especially if given a consistent theoretical grounding.

Taking this filament linking the completed object to the politics of its revival into account then, it seems reasonable to suggest that working with 3D printers to revive erased spaces for cultural critique is fabricating more than merely objects for scrutiny. What 3D printing does is fabricate new cultural cross-references embedded in the tactility of the object it revives, reproduces, or oddly, erases even further—making stone into plastic.

###The Tyranny and Enlightenment of Error

		- I would benefit from discussion of an explicit example.

One gets a very clear sense of the issues raised by fabrication technologies such as 3D printers when the objects to be reproduced become uncomfortable. For instance, reproducing erased spaces or objects is pretty great when "there is an element of play to this kind of research. In fact, one of the main reasons that we do it is because it is fun."[^4] 

 		- Gratuitous references to Auschwitz are generally a bad idea. More importantly, as scholars should we give in to the idea that we can only ask “difficult and important” questions about content that directly evokes death or genocide? I guess it depends who the “we” is here but I can imagine people who would find it “fun” to 3D print (items standing in for) “dead bodies” in specific circumstances. On a theoretical level, how do the issues you raise touch on “materiality” in particular? Narratives of Auschwitz or dead bodies, for example, would be as affectively “difficult” as 3D prints (or other types of representations) of them.
 		- I’m not convinced that “fun” is the operative term here.

However, if we begin reproducing dead bodies in plastic or the horrific ovens of Auschwitz in plastic, is it still "fun"? In this instance, the fabrication forces scrutiny as to our motivations for fabrication and invites difficult and important questions about the role of materiality in humanities-based inquiry and discourse. 
  
		- I’m not sure how the list of issues raised by 3D printing “signals humanities scholarship” in particular. Most people engaged in desktop 3D printing w/ plastic are not scholars, even fewer are scholars in the humanities. In terms of rendering things as trinkets, how is this different for “erased cultural spaces” than for non-erased ones, or for other items we 3D print copies of? An awful lot of those are basically trinkets. Note that there’s a whole literature on souvenirs that may be helpful in thinking through this question.
  
Enthused as we are with the potentialities of the emerging fabrication technology, we rush to “see if it’ll print” or “scale it to fit” the machinery to which we have access. For example, when we fabricate objects based on an incomplete sense of scale or reduce the scale of erased spaces to make them manageable, we necessarily set off another sequence of socio-political signifiers such as those raised by the plasticity of their fabrication. In short, we discard the potential reductive effect of the erased space’s very absence in favour of a defence that heralds its revival. Animating the very privilege that facilitates the fabrication, the reproduced object revives a host of emotional, cultural, social, political, even economic, signifiers that signal the domain of humanities scholarship. When we fabricate using 3D printing technologies, it’s very hard to avoid rendering erased cultural spaces, the cultural production associated with those spaces, and the emotional reaction they might illicit, as trinkets. That said, these trinkets invite interesting questions about motivation--or as Peters might suggest--the "marks of human meaning and intention."  

		- This is interesting but I’m confused because further down you seem to say that the errors are inconsequential and/or reveal “truth”. I also don’t see how scale and materiality are determined outside the parameters of the 3D printer–isn’t the capacity of the printer an important consideration in choosing the size of a print and don’t we use ABS plastic because that’s what works in our printers? Note, also, that the community of hobbyists who use hobby-grade printers and models from Thingiverse are a subset of the users of 3D printing at this moment, and that the technology is changing rapidly. If the group you reference doesn’t care about quality control, why do you then feel that there is signification in the errors?

Largely determined outside the parameters of the 3D printer, scale and materiality are rendered moot by the tyranny of error brought on by the use of the hardware and software required to produce the object. Source files are corrupt, the software used to make those files sometimes dubious, and the printing machines themselves are prone to misalignment, failure, or technical misreadings. As the still nascent activity of desktop 3D printing—along with other forms of desktop fabrication such as laser cutters and millers for that matter—finds legs, the practices and principles that guide fabrication are born out of a community of hobbyists or transient professionals. As a result, there is little in the way of quality control beyond the community of practice, which does not yet fully account for the potential signification that errors in fabrication might yield.

		- I’m not clear on why a physical object can’t accept changes or show the evidence of its transformations. A lot of effort is put into the preservation of cultural artifacts, which is based on the fact that changes can and do happen, through use or the ravages of time. Antique dealers make millions of dollars based on their ability to look at old objects and figure out if, when, and how they have been altered (or not–the most valuable antiques since alteration is so common), based on nothing more than the physical evidence left behind by the repairs. Is there some evidence that most reconstructions look for sources in the margins of society? This is not the case in the cultural heritage sector in North America or Europe, so if the desktop maker movement is doing something counter to what cultural heritage work is doing, it needs to be explained. Do more people print the Harvest Alter than print a model of the Eiffel Tower?

Building on an acknowledgement of the effect error might have on the object’s cultural signification, material fabrication also needs to account for the permanence of the physical object that, once produced—even as an error or partial attempt—cannot accept changes or show the marginalia/evidence of its transformations. This is particularly important given that most reconstitutions of erased spaces tend to look for sources in the margins of society—those neglected, historical, erased, highly isolated, prototypes (or silences)—where little remains to mark cultural, economic, and aesthetic contexts.

		- I might suggest beginning the short essay with a thick description of the object and the process of its fabrication in order to point to the stakes/politics of 3D printing. Moreover, it would ground the discussion in a concrete example, which would serve to clarify, for example, the notion of an erased space.
The object in the photo below, printed using the Makerbot infrastructure—on-line community (Thingiverse), software, and 3D printing machine—illustrates some of the potential issues raised by a community of practice focused on the dissemination of the source file and success of the object’s rendering rather than the object’s cultural resonance. The process begins by loading the community-made stereolithography (.stl) file of the Taiwanese Aboriginal Harvest Festival Altar[^5] into the Makerbot preparation software.

[Pic of Taiwan Harvest Alter inside Makerbot Software](taiwan_harvest_alter-DNW01.png) 
PLACE FIG 1 SOMEWHERE NEAR HERE

	- This is a good place for me to bring up the fact that no context about the Taiwanese Aboriginal Harvest Festival is provided in the article–which thereby replicates the colonization that is being critiqued. Based on the article here, I can’t tell a thing about the “original” version of the altar that this Thingiverse file models, but from a bit of googling I note that the Harvest Festival continues to happen annually in Taiwan, which is surely a heavily urbanized environment. Perhaps what we see depicted is a version of the actual current context of the Altar. Surely the author needs to provide us some context about what this structure is and how it exists or previously existed in Taiwan? I’m not convinced that it’s even a reproduction of a specific building rather than a generic instance of a type of structure, an Altar built for an annual festival. How do I know it’s erased, “performing colonial erasure and context burning”? Because someone put the word “Aboriginal” in the title of the model? In this paragraph, the “community of unknown motivations” is meant to refer to users of Makerbot, but equally applies to the reified authentic native community that the author images to have built the original structure.
In this pre-fabrication environment, the Altar is already going through transformations that could be construed as manipulating its cultural place. The Altar is foregrounded in the on-screen interface in an urbanized environment that, though darkened, boxes or colonizes the object in a state that re-animates the process of cultural erasure. While no doubt designed to signal the community that created the file in the first place, the software interface places the indigenous object about to be fabricated within an urban, Westernized, capitalistic enclave, performing colonial erasure and context burning yet again, allowing a community of unknown motivations to manipulate and process the cultural artifact.
The next step in the fabrication process involves the actual printing of the object using plastic filament; the object is at the mercy of the machine’s tendencies:

[3D-Print images of Taiwan Harvest Alter](taiwan_harvest_alter-DNW02.jpg)[^6]
PLACE FIG 2 SOMEWHERE NEAR HERE

	- Be wary of terms like “cultural truths”. True to whom? Cultural as opposed to…? ideological? political? Whose culture? Are you suggesting that a 3D printed model of the Altar will somehow affect the original (if it exists) back there in Taiwan? Or rather that the 3D printed rendering will affect how people who see the rendering interpret it? Triggers as in “trigger warnings”? Is there a scholarship on this yet?
	- Here’s an instance where “fabricated” is a tricky term to use. There are many ways in which people create reproductions of cultural artifacts, and all of them are fabricated, though only a few are 3D printed. Technologically-crazed zeal seems rather extreme–is this about historical recreations a la Colonial Williamsburg? I recently watched their live stream of the raising of a hand-hewn and pegged building frame using eighteenth century methods. The building they were reconstructing was long gone, therefore presumably “erased” in your terms. What are the different issues raised by the reconstruction on the ground at CW, say the governor’s mansion, and a 3D print at small scale of the exact same structure? There’s a thoughtful scholarly literature on public history and historic restoration that perhaps should be accessed here.
	- I’m still not convinced that the term is “erased spaces.” “Space” is very different from “place.” And you seem to be referring to historical sites whose structures and related objects have been displaced/removed/demolished/transformed. I do think the question of responsibility or ethics in reconstituting historical sites is relevant, nay, necessary. And with this the question of how such reconstitution happens–be it by means of AR overlays on mobile screen interfaces, reconstructions or ghost structures, or 3D fabrication.

At this point, one must ask what effect the fabricated object has on the cultural truths the Altar might signify. As Tim Sherratt has suggested, "The process of recall is unpredictable and sometimes disturbing--memories are often triggered involuntarily. Within a society memories are contested and contradictory."[^5] The materiality of once-erased spaces intercedes upon the intended outcomes, rendering any cultural critique or production inert. That is, while we may be able to fabricate erased objects--in this case using the Taiwanese Aboriginal Harvest Festival Altar as a representative example--we do not yet have a foundation for understanding and predicting triggers--be they cultural, social, economic--the reproduction of those models may elicit. We may be guilty, in our technologically-crazed zeal for reanimating erased spaces, of fabricating connections between materiality and memory, unduly activating difficult emotional reactions that are not accounted for in the value proposition for re-making erased spaces, which is about re- establishing erased truths and representing lost heritage.

	- This is the point in the article that I find most interesting, in terms of how the physicality of the actual printed model affects meaning. I don’t necessarily agree that the print is “ugly” though. Think of glitch art, for example. There is no “given” correlation between a glitchy 3D print and exploitation, destruction and displacement. If the author wishes to argue for that correlation he needs to justify the argument.
	- It also occurs to me to mention that I have literally “peeled back the layers” of a 3D print, albeit with an exacto knife rather than my fingers. Is the reference metaphorical?
With its flat colour, trailing spindles, lopsided planks, and buttered edges, the 3D printed Altar above shows the many layers of its fabrication that cannot be peeled back. The errors visible, the object becomes a bastardized fabrication of the original, forever rendered in plastic. The fabrication has not melted seamlessly, blending the layers into one another, creating the perception of smoothness, refinement, and completion. Instead, the hardware—and the process that governs its use—scans, renders, and finally fabricates erased spaces, representing a re-colonization rather than a renewed existence—one that is set off by the errors inherent in the object final state. The ugly fabricated Altar makes the cultural truths the object is trying to preserve subject to perversion, forcing us to ask: “What kind of reproduction is this? What are we fabricating: exploitation, destruction, displacement?”

		- How are there stories “locked in the imperfect lines of plastic filament”? It’s a nice metaphor, but, they are… lines of plastic filament. From a factory, delivered to your desktop, run through your printer. Narratives are human constructions that exist in the minds of human interpreters, usually experienced in relation to prompts in the material-cultural world. Your interest is presumably in the stories particular communities of practice might tell about particular 3D printed copies of originals.

The objects we reproduce fabricate the myth of permanence, preservation, and success rather than the political, cultural, and social values the object might represent; we can fabricate as many Taiwanese Aboriginal Harvest Festival Altars as we want, but each rendering, each story locked in the imperfect lines of plastic filament, will raise different questions about the object, the maker, and the connections both have to cultural contexts of the past, present, and future. The very act of reproduction opens many questions from those groups who might claim ownership over the fabricated object. This includes the group who might “own” the original artifact, but also extends to the community that creates the source files, the community that builds upon it, revises it, and makes still more copies of it. The artifact represents a form of cultural knowledge—or dissemination—and as such carries with it the expectations, biases, and failures of the communities that fabricate it.

		- These intriguing questions are particularly difficult in the context of this article because the author has given us no “cultural truths”, by which I mean, contextual information, about his example of the Taiwanese Aboriginal Harvest Festival Altar or the nebulous users of the Thingiverse model who might chose to 3D print it. He has forcefully failed to show how his inquiry might yield “truths” about Taiwan’s annual harvest festival or the use of altars or aboriginal people in Taiwan (as opposed to… Chinese, presumably?) or their beliefs or their architectural construction techniques or… and yet the “trinket” is supposed to reveal something fixed and inherent? In the absence of any reference to appropriate cultural description or analysis, we’re left with a philosophical argument that “truth” is somehow embedded in physical objects. That’s pretty much contrary to the last fifty years of humanities scholarship and deserves, at the least, some footnotes to the critical-philosophical scholarship that grounds such grandiose claims. If that is the author’s belief, then perhaps it should ground the whole article rather than appear for the first time in the conclusion. 

Traditionally, such results are taken in a negative light. However, there is much to be gained from having the cultural truths the object carries with it into our world revealed so evidently. In short, the tyranny of error reveals another set of questions or avenues for interrogating the original object. The fabrication, like most lies, reveals more truth than we might otherwise give credence. We are forced into questions not only about the makers of the original object, but also our own motivations, our own shortcomings--technological, sociological, cultural, textual, pedagogical--in our approach to the original object; the trinket reveals much about its maker, owner, and the politics of its exchange. What the fabrication of erased spaces might show us is that these spaces are not artifacts in a tactile or material sense, but rather are symbolic of a set of emotional, cultural, and economic realities that need to be read, examined, and critiqued thoughtfully so that we are equipped to process the enlightenment they might provide about our cultural moment past and present. Fabrication then invites us to account for the “fixed” truths fabricated by the 3D printing machine.

		- I am finding this draft very provisional and hard to parse at a number of levels.  It needs a substantial rewrite. The only footnotes provided are to direct quotes, and there is no bibliography although the author brings in a whole variety of cultural theories plus a particular cultural artifact that is not contextualized in the prose. Terminology is imprecise and inconsistent and the thread of the argument wanders around a variety of issues. The author resorts to unsubstantiated truth claims on multiple occasions.
		- To start, the very provocative title doesn’t seem to be matched by the content of the piece. The word “aura” appears once, in the first sentence, and never again. “Charred” appears only in the title (with “context burning” once in paragraph 20). “Assassin” does not appear, nor do any synonyms for it, and there is no discussion of murder, killing, etc.—except that the word corpse appears as a metaphor in the first sentence in a puzzling way with no elaboration. 3D printed dead bodies show up later in a passing reference. Either the author intended a different paper than what’s provided here, or the title needs to be rethought to match the actual content.  With the title given, I would expect to know, soon into the paper, what a charred aura was, how it related to re-making, and especially why the author wants to accuse makers of being assassins.
		- The introduction of the paper also doesn’t seem to set up what the paper is about. As I understand it, the paper wants to consider the ethical questions around the sharing of 3D models and the 3D prints that result from them, apparently with a focus on Thingiverse. (The Thingiverse context is not stated here overtly, but is in a shorter version of this discussion on the author’s website.) More specifically, the author seems to want to focus on several aspects of the printing of these shared 3D models related to reconstruction of now-lost cultural artifacts or built environments, primarily the “colonialism” of such appropriations and the “cultural truths” that are lost in the process.  In the opening paragraphs, and throughout the piece there are, in addition, a series of more general statements made about the nature of objects, of representation, of materiality, of communities of practice, that seem to be intended to shed light on the more central focus, but at present they don’t especially do that. They are unsupported either by footnotes referencing more complete discussions by others, or by supporting evidence provided by the author. The disparate generalizations and characterizations seem to send the prose off in many different directions. Therefore, the author needs to write an introduction to the paper that focuses its content and that actually introduces the project at hand. 
		- Please, instead, write an introduction that sets the reader up for the content you plan to focus on, which seems to be the issues I just characterized, in conjunction with the example of the “Taiwanese Aboriginal Harvest Festival Altar” model at Thingiverse, and a plastic print of the same.
		- I don’t feel that the subheadings are useful in this paper as currently presented. Because the wording of the subheadings only tangentially relates to the content of the sections it’s hard to see why they’re needed.
		- What is an “erased space” and/or “erased object” in this piece? It seems to mean several things: a piece of the human built environment that is no longer extant, or no longer extant in its “original” setting, but also it seems to mean an objectified physical representation/model of that “original” thing. A “loosely defined” list of examples is provided in paragraph 8. I’m not comfortable with this term being “loosely defined” by examples only (e.g. I know it when I see it), when the idea of erased space/object seems to be at the intended heart of analysis.
		- “Fabrication” is a difficult word to use in the way it is throughout the piece. Most cultural artifacts made by humans are “fabricated” and without some sort of explanation, the word can’t be used to contrast all human artifacts to those made with “desktop fabrication” technologies.  The author needs to find a consistent term or phrase that refers to the specific kind of making of 3D prints (or laser cuts or CNC milled parts, or whatever the boundaries of his specific breed of fabrication are) and define it once and then use the term or phrase consistently.
		- I also need to reiterate that the way the Taiwanese Aboriginal Harvest Festival Alter is currently used in the piece, which seems to be making a strong argument against appropriating representations of cultural artifacts–assuming colonizing is a bad thing, these days–is almost bizarre. It reads as if the author has no idea what the thing is, either the original that it represents, or the model that was uploaded by a particular Thingiverse user on a specific date. On the other hand, the example seems to offer interesting potential for the discussion of 3D printed reconstructions of built environments. BUT, the author needs to state his subject position. He needs to either tell his reader something about the original context of the Altar as well as about its erasure as well as the known intentions of the person who modeled it, or instead explicitly acknowledge that he knows nothing about any of that, and is taking it at face value from its presentation on Thingiverse. If the Altar is being taken at face value from its presentation on Thingiverse, then there’s still quite a bit of interesting analysis to be had, but don’t keep alluding to erasures and exploitations and cultural truths when all you have are your own assumptions. (I have excluded from consideration the possibility that the author intends to “colonize” the Altar as an example of what can happen.)
		- I realize this may all may sound harsh. There is surely a kernel of an interesting paper in here, and I look forward to seeing it emerge. That will only happen with some focused thought, careful attention to language, a studied attention to argument and evidence, and the very judicious use of generalizations.



-----

[^1]: Devon Elliott, Robert MacDougall, & William J. Turkel. ["New Old Things: Fabrication, Physical Computing, and Experiment in Historical Practice."](http://www.cjc-online.ca/index.php/journal/article/view/2506) *Canadian Journal of Communication* Vol 37 (2012) 121-128. (122-3)  
[^2]: Turkel, William. *The Archive of Place: Unearthing the Pasts of the Chilcotin Plateau.* Vancouver: UBC P, 2007. (227)  
[^3]: Peters, John Durham. *The Marvelous Clouds: Toward a Philosophy of Elemental Media*. Chicago: U of Chicago P, 2015. (Kindle Loc 80 of 9689)  
[^4]: Devon Elliott, Robert MacDougall, & William J. Turkel. ["New Old Things: Fabrication, Physical Computing, and Experiment in Historical Practice."](http://www.cjc-online.ca/index.php/journal/article/view/2506) *Canadian Journal of Communication* Vol 37 (2012) 121-128. (127)  
[^5]: Sherratt, Tim.  ["Unremembering the forgotten"](http://discontents.com.au/unremembering-the-forgotten) Keynote presented at DH2015, 3 July 2015. Accessed June 2015.  
[^6]: [Taiwan Aboriginal, Aboriginal Harvest Festival Altar. NANCHI. June 2, 2014:](http://www.thingiverse.com/thing:217653)  


Bibliography
Smelik, Anneke. "Mediating Memories. The Ethics of Post-9/11 Spectatorship." Arcadia -- International Journal For Literary Studies 45, no. 2 (December 2010): 307-325. Literary Reference Center, EBSCOhost (accessed February 17, 2016). (Permalink): http://0-search.ebscohost.com.orca.douglascollege.ca/login.aspx?direct=true&db=lfh&AN=59812458&site=eds-live&scope=site

Simpson, David. *9/11: The Culture of Commemoration*. Chicago: Chicago University Press, 2007. 