What happens to these files and their embedded use in other things. What happens when the trinket becomes a base for other designs:

Kyriakou, Harris and Englehardt, Steven and Nickerson, Jeffrey V., "Networks of Innovation in 3D Printing" (August 20, 2012). Workshop on Information in Networks, 2012. Available at SSRN: http://ssrn.com/abstract=2146080 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2146080
"These exploratory results suggest that analysis of remix network structure may provide ways of tracing innovation processes and detecting the emergence of new ideas, combination of disparate ideas. Such understanding is a goal in its own right. As part of this understanding, we might refine measures of design inbetweenness and measures of conceptual independence. In addition, it may be possible to encourage innovation by guiding interested inventors toward potential pairs of structurally separated and conceptually diverse ideas. The transparent system of innovation provided by Thingiverse may allow us to amplify great ideas by prompting new possibilities.

While innovation networks abound, few have the fast pace of the Thingiverse network: ideas are inherited from others, and then manufactured, affecting the world soon after they are published. The creative combination of designs we found suggests the value in an open approach to innovation in which copyright and patents are abandoned for fast, breakneck innovation."


----

Thinking about how 3D printing allows for disentangling the real and the unreal. What triggers are associated with the trauma of the real that can be diffused by the act of fabrication.

Anneke Smelik, "Mediating Memories: The Ethics of Post-9/11 Spectatorship." Arcadia - International Journal for Literary Studies. Volume 45, Issue 2, Pages 307–325, ISSN (Online) 1613-0642, ISSN (Print) 0003-7982, DOI: 10.1515/arca.2010.018, April 2011.


The question as to what kind of ethical position is available for the television viewer in a culture of "real virtuality," is a question that has, surprisingly, not been addressed much in media studies. Susan Sontag resists the postmodern analysis of media culture as a real virtuality because she thinks that the disappearance of the dividing line between the real and the unreal undermines an ethical position (Sontag, Pain of Others). I disagree with this view. First, as I have shown in this essay, we cannot easily disregard or undo the fundamental confusion between the real and the performed, actual and virtual, in a globalized (and increasingly digitized) media culture. Second, I believe an ethical position can be only coherent with, but also necessarily part of the critical stance I take in this essay. We require an understanding of the performative aspect of media culture in order to counteract its perverse effects. As Morley and Robins argue, an analysis of the relation to the "mediated" and the "real" may be complex, but is necessary for an understanding of the psychic investment of the viewer in the images of suffering (Morley/Robins, "Western Eyes" 141). Media culture may be complex and full of contradictions and paradoxes, but it can nonetheless be analyzed, criticized, and accounted for.

In this article I want to argue that 9/11 can be understood as a “performance of memory”. By performance of memory I refer to two structural elements that come together here: first, that anything on television acquires the quality of an event as a staged spectacle, because images of the real are taken up in a visual culture of repetition, pastiche, and performativity; and second, that images seem to run ahead of reality as they are framed in a fictional story of something that has already happened in the past. In the first part of this essay I expand on the role of media in the performance of memory by discussing films about ‘nine-eleven’. In the second part of the essay I address the ethical issues of a culture of performativity in relation to trauma. (309-10)

The development of new media and electronic technologies has also left its impact on the way in which a culture deals with its collective memory. Memory studies have therefore pointed to the pivotal role of media in keeping certain memories alive, and more specifically, to the promise of media to present memory as fresh, untainted, and even unmediated. The notion of memory as unmediated experience has haunted media studies of memory. According to  Susannah Radstone, the memory crisis in the late twentieth century is informed by the development of digital technologies that seek an experience of “immediacy, instantaneity and simultaneity” (Radstone, Memory and Methodology 7). It is as if the media have taken over the promise of immediacy and authenticity from memory. Ever since McLuhan argued that media are an extension of the human senses, and also an extension of consciousness, it is impossible within contemporary multimedia culture to maintain a view of memory as unmediated (McLuhan, Understanding Media). (310)

Memory is not only shaped by media, but media are also shaped by memory. Thus José van Dijck argues, “media and memory transform each other” (Dijck, 25). Media technologies structure our process of remembering, just as remembrance affects the way we make use of media devices. (311)

If we understand a medium as a process, and not as a thing, we can also argue that it not only re-mediates, but that the medium itself also remembers. That is why media usually mediate each other, as McLuhan already indicated in his seminal Understanding Media: “the ‘content’ of any medium is always another medium”, he famously stated (McLuhan, Understanding Media 8). Or, to put it differently, if the past is always already mediated, then media have by necessity to re-mediate. Mediated memory products can thus be understood as having a double mnemonic layer; that is, as being both the cultural and the medial remembrance of something. This may also hint at an explanation of why cultural memory seems to be shrouded in clichés and stereotypes. (311)

----

Distribution of objects, or digital representations of objects, is separated from things. Objects are not necessarily distributed through an economic system of exchange they are distrusted through constructs of "makeability" particularly as it applies to successful making.

Joel West, George Kuk "The complementarity of openness: How MakerBot leveraged Thingiverse in 3D printing" Technological Forecasting & Social Change 102 (2016) 169–181. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.techfore.2015.07.025

However, even after its 2013 acquisition the company continued to sponsor Thingiverse as an open community for user generated content. The firm allowed (and encouraged) MakerBot customers and other users to freely share their digital designs with little or no restrictions, for use with MakerBot and other 3D printers, as these designs created complementary value for the firm's (now proprietary) products.This pattern thus suggests a complementarity of openness, between the open and proprietary elements of a firm's strategy. It's difficult to support a firm's operations with a fully open offering; this is particularly true for goods with non-zero replication costs (cf. Raasch et al., 2009). Conversely, openness increases the value of the non-open part of a firm's value proposition (West, 2003). With information goods, firms have profited by creating complex offerings (such as software systems or service-based business models) that are a mixture of tightly linked open and proprietary parts (West and Gallagher, 2006).In the MakerBot case, the complementary offerings are separate and less tightly coupled: the MakerBot printers and Thingiverse content have independent (but complementary) value, because the printer can be used to print its owner's unique designs and the content can be printed on other printers. With both offerings, the three founders started with free revealing of their fully open offerings, in large part due to an ideology of openness that was derived from that of open source software (cf. Dedrick and West, 2008; Henkel, 2009).

The value proposition for consumer 3D printing requires two com- plementary offerings: systems and content. Consumer value is realized when digital designs are transformed into physical objects using a system that includes graphics software, a computer and a 3D printer. Content means the creation, modification and sharing of these digital representations of tangible objects — often shared through online communities. Digital designs are complementary goods that make the adoption of 3D printing systems more valuable.Here we review research on the role of complementary goods in sys- tems adoption, with a focus on community-sourced complements. We also consider how firms interact with external communities, and selec- tively provide outbound openness (and accept inbound openness) to advance firm goals, particularly in the context of open source software and hardware.

We examine the history of consumer 3D printing (3DP) within the settings of 3DP industry, focusing on the unfolding of major events over time as a key aspect of this process. In doing so, we can illuminate the relationships between software and hardware, and between infor- mation and tangible goods. As tangible goods, 3D printers play a unique role in bridging the digital and physical worlds by providing a way to transform digitally stored representations of objects into a tangible good.


